so thank you everyone for coming to the
session my name is Mike fur I'm an
engineer with AWS in the ec2
organization and today i will be talking
to you about network performance so this
is a 400 level talk so we're going to go
pretty deep we're going to be talking
about TCP performance I will give you a
little bit of a gentle ramp up to kind
of get your minds engaged and kind of in
that networking mode and after we kind
of start talking about TCP we have
talked about what makes it go you know
what are some of the things that is
going on kind of under the covers when
TCP is is running underneath your
application then we'll look at some
tools to try to inspect what decision is
TCP is making these tools can can kind
of pull back the wool on the black box
which can be the network and they give
us really good insights and then I will
show some examples of how we can change
some of the parameters of TCP to alter
our performance a lot of the talk a lot
of the examples in this talk are going
to be in Linux but of course TCP is a
cross-platform technology all of these
examples port equally well to Windows
but just to keep the tall concise today
every all the examples i'm gonna show on
the slides are actually linux-based and
then the last part of my talk i'm going
to have some sample applications or i'm
going to demonstrate what happens when
we start tuning tcp under various
different conditions the example
applications are not necessarily meant
to be exact replications of real-world
scenarios they're really more here to
demonstrate what affects these tuning
techniques have and what I hope you take
away from this talk is actually a new
set of tools in your tool kit rather
than an exact you know performance
analysis of these particular
applications so it's a little bit of a
spoiler and to keep you in your seats
because I know it's Friday one of the
applications i'm gonna be showing at the
end is actually going to increase its
performance 537 percent and this is a
change i'm going to be making without
touching the application itself so i'm
not going to be touching the code i'm
not going to changing the application
you know in any way i'm just going to be
manipulating the the linux system are
going to be running it on and just
playing with some of the tcp tuning
parameters there so i've been working at
amazon for a little over seven years now
I really love working on the cloud and
I've spent almost all my time in that
duration in the east to networking
organization and so I've really come to
love TCP too so TCP of course is the
transmission control protocol it's the
protocol that underlines most not all
but most kind of application layer
protocols out there so you know if
you're remotely administrating an ec2
instance over ssh that's of course going
over TCP same with browsing the web or
sending an email from your phone all
running on top of TCP right and then gcb
while it's the it's the dominant one of
course you have other options such as
you know UDP and others but the reason
tcp I think is so popular for a couple
of reasons one is that it gives you kind
of a streaming delivery kind of
abstraction for your application so when
you in stancu the tcp connection your
application gets a socket where it can
read and write bytes to write the
application doesn't have to concern
itself with what happens to those bites
after it rise to the socket it's TCPS
job to make sure all the bites are
delivered to the other side that none of
them are dropped none of them are
duplicated and they aren't reordered in
any way the second thing that tcp does
for us is dynamically adjusts to the
current networking conditions right so
if the network has a shift in behavior
TCP will adjust its behavior and was
always trying to maximize its throughput
based on what it perceives to be the
current network condition so let's let's
start talking a little bit about what
TCP looks like kind of from a high level
right so when I when you ask most people
about TCP the first thing they say is
well there's a three-way handshake right
and the three-way handshake is there to
establish a connection right so TCP is a
connection-oriented protocol and the
instruction we oftentimes think about is
after you establish this connection you
have a two-way bi-directional pipe
between two endpoints so here let's say
I have to Linux instances Jack and Jill
and after establishing the three-way
handshake they don't have a
bi-directional communication pipe to
send this pipe is fully duplex you know
jack and jill can both send and receive
simultaneously and it's kind of a nice
abstraction for you know application
programmers to view however when we
start looking at actual TCP performance
itself
often helps to kind of go level deeper
and not think of this is one connection
but rather a pair of unidirectional
connections the reason this is important
is the path that packets take from Jack
to get to Jill might be a very different
path than Jill takes get to back to Jack
they might take paths in that they
Traverse different routers or that they
might go through the same router is put
the particular interface buffers they
hit might have very different properties
for example if you're sending a stream
and there's a lot of people who are
concurrently streaming a live video
stream there might be a lot of
contention in one side of this transfer
but not on the other the other big
reason it's important to kind of view
TCP connections kind of as two separate
unidirectional sides is the main control
mechanism we have is actually at the
sender when a receiver receives a packet
it has a very limited state machine to
figure out what to do next but on the
sender side it actually has quite a bit
of opportunity to figure out when and
how often it should put packets on the
wire so when you're thinking about TCP
and performance the number of bytes that
are actually applied at any given time
is turns out to be one of the most
important things to tune when trying to
optimize the flow of a TCP connection
there's two main factors that go into
the number are the performance of TCP
and these are the received window and
the congestion window hopefully this
isn't a blast too much for the past but
just to give you a little bit of a ramp
up on these so the receive window
represents a buffer on the receiver side
it's managed by the receiver and it's
signaled to the sender and the point of
this buffer is that it's maintained kind
of in the colonel in the TCP stack so as
bytes are coming off the wire they're
put into this buffer in the kernel and
then it's up to the application from
time to time to reach down into the
kernel and do a read system call and
read those bytes up into the application
so of course what this means is that if
the application is not reading those
buff those bites out of the buffer the
buffer can fill up and if the buffer is
full there's no point in Jack sending
any more data to jail if Jill's buffers
full right so that's one of the reasons
why it kind of signals this this buffer
size back and forth
the other important thing that's keep in
mind with this with this receive window
is we need to keep in mind the
round-trip time between these two
instances and the reason that's
important is that when you're talking
about you know bites on the wire and and
and round trip times the usual equation
we have is what's known as the bandwidth
delay product right the bandwidth delay
product says if I have a particular
bandwidth at a particular round trip
time if I multiply those two together I
get a total number of bytes I can have
in flight at any given time now what
I've done here on this slide is I've
taken that equation and I kind of solved
for a different field which is that if I
know my my receive window if I know the
number of bytes I'm gonna have in flight
at a given time let's say 100 kilobytes
and I know my round trip time I can't
really change the speed of light very
often so let's say I have a round trip
time of 2 milliseconds then the maximum
effective bandwidth I can get on this
TCP connection is only 400 megabits
foreigner megabits is actually pretty
good right a lot of applications will do
very well with 400 megabits right but of
course if this not all applications have
the luxury of a to denilla second round
trip time if I took this same number of
bytes on the wire and I changed it to a
system with that were separated by a
hundred milliseconds then the throughput
that I could effectively get on his
connection with dropped all the way down
to eight megabits so nothing else has
changed in the system although the
round-trip time and of course 100
milliseconds is not that unreasonable
it's about the time a packet would take
from the east coast to the west coast
and back again across the United States
so again this is not related to how big
of a piece of fiber I have how many
waves were on it there could be a lot of
available bandwidth but my effective
bandwidth is limited by how many bytes
are in flight so it's really important
that we stay on top of what's going into
these decisions that T speeds making to
make sure it's maximizing and is able to
fully utilize the bandwidth that might
be there and not artificially limited
itself so here's a here's a couple
examples from from Linux these are
actually I run all these on Amazon Linux
if you're trying to run them at home but
these are pretty standard across almost
all linux distributions these days so
this first sis CTL
is setting the maximum received window
for kind of all IP protocols across the
box the second sis CTL there is doing it
specifically for TCP and TCP actually
takes a three tuple values it takes a
minimum a default and a maximum and so
if you have a maximum TCP received
window that's too small no matter how
hard T spew tries it might never be able
to take full advantage of available
bandwidth ok let's talk about the
congestion window the congestion window
is a little bit trickier the congested
the role of the congestion window in TCP
is that it's trying to figure out if
there's congestion somewhere in the
middle of the network it's maintained by
the sender and it's trying to figure out
you know how fast should I send data
across the wire because if there's
congestion and I send too much data it's
very luckily some of that data will be
dropped so it's trying to play a game to
figure out how fast can I send and kind
of optimize my chances that all the data
will eventually arrive at the other end
point the inputs to try to figure out
what to set the congestion window to
kind of vary based on what
implementation of the congestion control
algorithm that is in use there's a few
different inputs out there that use that
these different algorithms use but most
of them use two different inputs as
they're kind of primarily signals one is
lost so in other words if I'm sending a
stream of packets across the wire if one
of the packets doesn't arrive then I
know something might be going wrong in
the middle of network the second one
that these algorithms use is latency so
how long does it take for my packet to
maybe go from one side to the connection
to the other and perhaps back again
these aren't the only inputs that
algorithms use there's there's some
other ones out there some of the
algorithms will use explicit signaling
which kind of more directly signal back
and forth what both sides think about
congestion and there's some algorithms
out there and I'm going to mention this
late a little bit later that uh I'll
actually try to figure out the spacing
between the packets to try to guess just
how congested the network is
so when trying to set the congestion
window the TCP congestion control
algorithms have a difficult job when
they start out they have no idea what
the state of the network is they have no
idea if there's loss they have no idea
what the latency is all they know is
they have this destination address that
they would like to send some packets to
so the way it starts out is it uses
what's called an initial congestion
window and the initial congestion window
is the number of packets that it puts on
the wire before waiting for its first
acknowledgement so with the initial
congestion window of three it'll put
three packets on the wire and let's
assume we have a 15 bite and 1,500 bite
MTU that means each packet is gonna be
about 14 48 bytes and our total number
of lights on the wire before waiting for
our first response is only about 4,300
bytes so I send out 4,300 bites I wait
for a response and then I then after I
get a successful response hopefully the
TCP algorithms will typically ramp up
very very quickly to try to figure out
just how big of a congestion I can
window I can use before I start to see
impact from the network now three is a
default but there's no reason we can't
change it and the way we change it is
actually on a per route basis so if we
would like to change the route or excuse
me if you like to change the initial
congestion window for one of our routes
we can do it with these this command
here so this IP route change command
will when appended with the initial
condition window value will update it
and again this number is in packets and
so as you can find and when you do the
math it's really the number of maximum
segment sizes that will allow to go into
the network and then if I show by if I
print out my routes again but by default
it won't print it if it if it hasn't
been altered but once I do change it you
can see that it now shows up in the
updated output of listing my routes and
now I've updated that initial congestion
window 16 packets and at 16 packets I've
now gone from instead of 4,300 bytes for
waiting for my first packet to almost 23
/ 23 k before I wait for that first
acknowledgment so this is going to be a
really important difference especially
if you have very short-lived connections
that transfer a small amount of data
right think about web pages
HTML files thumbnails a lot of
connections have this property that only
lasts for very short amount of time and
only transfer a relatively small amount
of data and so this can actually really
have a meaningful impact to this and
we're going to look at this in one of
the example applications at the end of
the talk so let's talk some more about
loss so this is a graph that shows what
happens when you start to have loss on a
TCP connection the y-axis here is kind
of your percent of idealized throughput
so at zero percent loss you're getting a
hundred percent of your you know
idealized throughput as you start to see
more and more loss of the network the
throughput of the connection will drop
off dramatically you know I think you
know this it's almost counterintuitive
you know if you ask someone hey I've had
this TCP connection and one percent of
my packets are dropped which means 99%
of my packets are actually getting there
what percent of my throughput what I
expect maybe not 99 maybe I'd say 95 or
90 but that's not the case at all right
it actually drops tiles very very
quickly and part of that is the actual
TCP algorithm itself when it detects
loss itself throttles itself it really
pulls back and tries not to kind of pile
on and make the situation worse so loss
has a very very important role in just
how fast our applications can run the
other take away from this graph is some
of the inverse which is to say if you
have an application and suddenly that
application starts performing very very
poorly one potential candidate that
could cause that would be lost on the
network so let's look at some tools that
we can use to try to figure out am I
seeing loss and is that contributing why
my application is actually slowing down
so the first too long to talk about here
is the netstat tool this is probably the
most well-known tool that I'm gonna talk
about today netstat is pretty standard
you'll find it on just about every Linux
situation out there installed by default
and it gives you lots and lots and lots
of data about a lot of different things
related to sockets so I'm showing some
output where I'm just prepping out the
number of retransmissions so in TCP or a
retransmission a
is when I send some packets and I fail
to get a response and within a
particular window and so what that means
is that either the packets I sent to the
receiver got dropped or the response
they sent back to me got dropped in
either case I don't know what happened
and so I have no choice but to resend
the packets that did not arrive and so
this is what we call a retransmission so
if you ever see a retransmission what
that means is that your tcp stack thinks
that the packets it sent the first time
did not arrive now that's that while
it's very useful is also very
coarse-grained it actually these
counters are for all your sockets across
the entire box and so you won't be able
to differentiate which connection is
actually seeing these during
transmissions these counters are also
initialized when Linux boots so even
though you might see 58,000
retransmission you don't know if that
happened ten seconds ago or ten weeks
ago and so to be useful you're going to
have to pull this tool and look for
shifts in the number to try to correlate
when you might be seeing loss based on 1
the number of retransmissions changes so
we can do a little bit better than
netstat another tool that's a little bit
less known but is also commonly
installed is called the socket statistic
tool or just SS so this tool is a bunch
of options I showed a few here and it
gives you a wealth of information and
the socket statistic tool what it does
is it actually gives you / socket
information I'm not going to go through
all these but I'm going to touch on a
few of them so the first one we can see
here is the state of the connection so
if you're interested in looking just at
established connections or one in a
particular TCP state you can certainly
grep those out excuse me the second
number here is the sin q right so the
sin q is a buffer on the sender side
from when the application puts a dozen
right system call down to the TCP sack
until those bites are actually
transmitted on the wire so if you see
this number just take continually at
zero but that tells you is that your
application just isn't writing any data
so it's very healthy to see this number
kind of constantly being at a good value
because that means the thing that's
blocking your system is not your
application but it's actually something
in the network so you kind of expect to
see
this number on an active TCP connection
to be continually you know greater than
zero next we have this list this word
cubic it's a little bit of a you know
odd word right in the middle of this
text of this wall of text cubic is
actually the TCP congestion control
algorithm that this particular
connection is using we're going to talk
a little bit more about that in just a
second and then we have the
retransmission timeout so when you when
you don't when you don't get
acknowledgement at some point you have
to make a decision about how long to
wait because the acknowledgment might be
on its way right the acknowledgement you
may not have been dropped it might just
be experienced some latency on the links
and it might not have a shown up yet so
this number is the number of
milliseconds that this TCP connection
will wait until it initiates a
retransmission for a packet that has not
yet been acknowledged next we have the
congestion window so this TCP connection
is ramped up to 138 packets again this
numbers and packets not bytes and then
finally the number of retransmissions
for this particular TCP connection so
this pd action is actually seeing about
11,000 retransmissions so it is probably
experiencing some loss somewhere on the
network we can actually do a little bit
better than SS there's some really great
open source tools out there this one is
by Brendan Greg so Brendan is a engineer
at Netflix it is a really amazing a
performance blog i highly recommend you
check it out and what Brendan's tool
does here is it actually uses the
colonel instrumentation framework to
actually instrument the tcp retransmit
skb function in the kernel to gather
some information when every transmission
happens so this is advantageous for a
couple of reasons one is that because
we're actually instrumenting the
particular kernel function call it only
gets cold when there's an actual
retransmission which basically means you
get a trigger right every you can run
this command and you'll see you know as
retransmissions happen they'll start
showing up on your screen the other nice
thing about this is that because you're
in the kernel you I you have easy access
to more information you can actually
turn it you can actually information
just this this is kind of a default but
right away we can see that we've already
got the process ID which is a really
helpful to track back this particular
TCP connection was initiated by this
particular process running on my box and
so it can be very helpful if you know
that's the process ID of my web server
or maybe my mail client or whatever and
so you know having additional
information at our disposal really helps
us kind of try to triangulate what's
going on so definitely take a look at
this tool and play around that has a lot
of really cool options the other nice
thing about it beat is because it's
instrumenting the kind of the exception
path so it's menteng the retransmit
function that means it's only called
when the retransmits happens which means
the overhead of the instrumentation is
only paid when you have a retransmission
so it wouldn't affect the performance of
your TCP connection on kind of the
normal happy path only when you actually
see returns mission does it actually
execute this instrumented code which is
a little bit nice okay let's take some
more into the congestion control
algorithm so the congestion control
algorithm really is the magic in TCP and
it's magical because it has to make
almost an impossible decision the TCP
congestion control algorithm is looking
at just local information it's trying to
figure out you know it's looking at the
different packets that are arriving and
it's trying to make an inference about
what's going on kind of in the global
network at a particular point in time of
course the state of the global network
is going to be changing over time and so
the congestion control algorithm has a
very difficult job in that it has to
kind of take clues and use heuristics to
come up with a decision about what to do
next so if you look at the history of
the congestion control algorithm on
Linux you can see it's actually changed
several times over the years so back
before 268 it was actually an
implementation called New Reno starting
at 268 it actually switch to something
called bik and now the modern builds the
kernel actually use something called
cubic which we saw before with the SS
tool there's a bunch of other
implementations out there it's actually
a fascinating area of research if you
want to learn more about TCP and and and
what goes
to building these algorithms I
definitely recommend digging in and
reading some papers about what are the
design decisions behind each of these
algorithms but one of the nice things
that looks gives us is it has a
pluggable architecture so that we can
swap out which algorithm we want to use
and that's really important because you
know just because there's a default
algorithm it doesn't necessarily mean
that that default is going to apply to
our particular use case and the other
thing you know you can take away from
this when i see you know a fundamental
aspect of my of my operating system
change several times over a time period
you know you can take a kind of take
step back and think well why is it why
can't we get this right and i think the
first reason which is what i already
touched on is that it's a hard problem
and so we're going to continually
iterate on trying to solve this problem
with better heuristics the other things
happened is you know the network itself
looks very very different over the years
it's really transformed several times if
you think back to you know 10 20 years
ago there was broad band before that
there was dial-up you know then we had
Wi-Fi and now there's there's a huge
mobile you know a set of devices out
there that are running TCP applications
and so when you think about all these
different kinds of network topologies
it's really a very different perspective
for these algorithms to have to handle
if I'm on a mobile network versus a
broadband network and since you're a
particular application might be
targeting customers in one other
segments and maybe not both it might
behoove you to try to investigate are
there different TCP congestion control
algorithms that can take advantage of my
specific situation so if we want to tune
exactly which algorithm are going to use
the first thing we can do is see what
are our options so here's a cyst CTL and
this is just asking the colonel what tcp
control algorithms are available to me
on this box so on this particular
instance I have cubic and Reno but
there's actually a large number of these
algorithms that actually come
precompiled in a lot of the standard
kind of Colonel images for linux
distributions and we can just find those
in the in the kernel tree just by using
that fine command there so anything kind
of prefix with TCP underscore is
probably going to be a congestion
control algorithm
and so if we want to try out a new one
let's try it let's try at one called
Illinois that sounds fun so we're going
to modprobe Illinois so that just loads
that kernel module into the kernel and
then lastly we're going to update our
use that CTL to update the list of
available congestion control algorithms
to include Illinois now this point
Illinois is simply a choice it's not
what network processes are going to use
going forward without a little bit of
help and when you look at what a lot of
applications out there do very few of
them excuse me very few of them actually
expose this configuration knob you know
it's a very low level detail to pick
what congestion control algorithm you
want to use when you set up a TCP
connection right it's not your general
you know result when you when you first
learning how to open a TCP connection
when you're first learning how to
program and in fact even the most
advanced servers out there typically
don't expose this all the way through
like to configuration files so one way
for us to play around with this however
is this just to update the system-wide
default and therefore any new
connections going forward after we
update the system by default well then
start using our new algorithm so that's
what these commands do here this the CTL
at the top is updating the in-memory
kernel with to set the Illinois
congestion control algorithm to be our
default of course the downside of using
that command is that it only lasts as
long as your instance is running if it
ever reboots you lose that parameter so
the second for the second command there
is what you can use to persist it across
reboots and then lastly of course this
is only new connections going forward so
if you're trying to do some experiments
and want to see the effects of this you
wanted to make sure you bounce all your
network processes to make sure they're
all taking advantage of a new setting
that you just set up ok so let's talk a
little bit more about the retransmission
timer so the retransmission timer is
another one of these kind of finicky
values that you have to take some care
in selecting the retransmission timer is
important because it's it's the sender's
perspective of when it has received an
acknowledgement so if you put the
retransmission time out to low let's say
I stick it at 100 milliseconds and I'm
communicating over TCP connection
has a round-trip time of 95 milliseconds
then it's very likely that a response
will be on its way and just experience a
little bit of jitter and my RTO timer
will fire and so I'll initiate a
retransmission just before the packet
there the acknowledgement packet
actually arrives and so we're wasting
work and we're you know not doing the
the network any favor because we're
adding packets that are ultimately going
to be useless and we'll add a little bit
of congestion to the network to of
course on the flip side you don't to
send it too high if you set the RTO
timer to say a second and you have two
instances which are right next to each
other and maybe they have you know a sub
1 millisecond round-trip time and if one
of those packets does happen to get
dropped those instances are just going
to sit there for the other 999
milliseconds waiting just in case for
this packet to show up one day and so if
you set it too high you can have these
really long stalls in your network
connection which is you know almost the
almost as bad right so it's a little bit
of an art to add about how to set this
on linux on linux the default is 200
milliseconds and it's set again on a
pro-rata basis when you when you list
your routes it's not going to show you
the 200 because it is the default but we
can certainly update it so let's update
it to a smaller value for our local
subnet so if you're running two
instances in the same subnet and say a
VPC those two instances will always be
in the same availability zone which
means i'd expect you know very low round
trip time you know on the order of one
or maybe two milliseconds around trip
time between those instances so let's
update just that it's just that one
route there which is the the link local
route which is applies to all the
instances in my kind of my broadcast
domain so again here's our route list we
can see what we're starting out with as
i'm going to IP route change and set my
retransmission minimum to 10
milliseconds so this should be a pretty
comfortable you know buffer so that if i
see a little bit of jitter you know it
does happen and
time to time I shouldn't have any
spurious retransmissions but at the same
time I will actually react fairly
quickly because I'm i expected
round-trip time is still low and then
again if i list my routes after the fact
we can see the RT them in there has been
applied so one of the things that
actually can kind of contribute to
retransmissions is what's called queuing
on the network path and so what when you
send a packet between two endpoints what
happens is it traverses some set of
routers before it finally reaches its
destination now when a packet reaches a
router in the middle of your network
path what happens is it arrives on an
incoming network interface and it sits
in a queue the router then has a data
plane which takes the packet off the
queue makes a routing decision as
quickly as it can and then sticks it on
an outbound queue on the outbound
interface so we have 2 q's here on this
router and what we've discovered is that
these cues can be subject to kind of
micro bursts of activity so if you have
a bunch of packets all show up exactly
the same time and get pulled off the
wire very very close together the
routing engine can only process them at
a certain speed and so if you're at the
back of the queue you can observe
latency increases simply by sitting that
queue for just a little bit of time it
doesn't necessarily mean the link itself
is saturated it means that a lot of
packets showed up exactly the same times
it's a really quick microburst and this
can contribute to kind of the end and
latency of your system of course when
that happens you can trigger
retransmission timeouts now and again
this has not become from congestion but
it's from this kind of queueing behavior
so there's been a really interesting
body of work that kind of looks into
this problem to try to figure out is
there anything we can do about it and
turns out there is it's called active
queue management and what active queue
management does it has this observation
that you know the problem here is
actually that microburst so if I'm in a
situation where I have routers whose
interfaces might have kind of lengthy
queues it behooves me to try to insert
just a little tiny bit of delay in
between a few of my packets to try to
spread them out
right if you if you think about what
happens a lot of times from and then the
end perspective of what's going on the
network you oftentimes have big buffers
which are copied in bulk processed and
then another big ball is applied so with
this the idea behind some of these
algorithms is you want to try to take
smaller chunks and put a little bit of
spacing so the end-to-end kind of
bandwidth will be approximately the same
but the actual spacing between the
packets is just enough to try to kind of
allied this queuing problem so the
implementation i'm going to use here is
called the coddle algorithm coddle
actually stands for controlled delay
because that's effectively what it's
doing is putting in some very controlled
very selective bits of delay into the
network and this particular algorithm
was it comes standard on a lot of
installations of Linux it certainly is
on amazon Linux and many others really
and so the way we're going to turn this
on is using what's called the traffic
control mechanism of Linux so the TC
command so the TC command is one of
these tools which is extremely powerful
and is really rivaled by its learning
curve I mean like it's a very hard tool
to kind of figure out if you're just
getting started but the good news is
there's a lot of good documentation and
particularly good examples out there for
doing particular things with the TC
command even if you don't fully grok
every little bit of its of its power so
here what I'm doing is I'm actually
looking at what's called a queueing
discipline so I'm going to list my
queueing disciplines and the important
line is that is that second one with the
with the pound sign which is I'm going
to add a new entry in my queueing
discipline which says add this coddle
algorithm that's what this is going to
do is that every time a packet leaves my
linux instance it will be subject to
this queueing discipline and it will go
through this coddle implementation and
so coddled is is actually kind of neat
there's there's more information here at
that web page and what cuddle actually
tries to do is it tries to not make you
make any decisions it doesn't really
have very many tuning parameters and one
of its strengths is that it just tries
to be smart and tries to use a lot of
heuristics to figure out things for you
and so we're going to look at this some
more again once we get to our
applications at the end
okay one other thing to keep in mind
with tcp performance is of course the
size of your packets a lot of systems
along the network path are ultimately
limited by their packet per second
performance not necessarily their byte
per second performance so if you
thinking about making a routing decision
on a packet the routing decision just
looks at the headers and then moves the
entire packet all at once and so what
that means is that if we want to
increase our throughput of the system
for given packet per second it behooves
us to increase our payload so that we
can get a higher ratio of kind of bytes
that were ultimately from the
application into each packet so if we
start out with kind of a 1500 byte
packet which is what your which would
what you would have kind of standard on
the internet you get about three and a
half percent of overhead just from the
IP and TCP you know all the two three
four layer headers that are on this
packet that contribute to just waste
right so what a lot of more recent
networks use is 9000 one byte packets
this is what we used in VPC so you'll
actually get explicit signaling within
your BP see that you can go up to 9000
one bites and we're going to look at
some actual implications of these packet
sizes in just a minute but let's say we
want to actually tweak it and play
around a little bit so if we look at our
if you look at our local link using this
IP link command what we can see is that
it's actually set to 9001 which is what
we want and if we show our route list it
doesn't it doesn't really tell us much
because it's kind of defaulting to its
default and it will actually use you
know path MTU discovery to figure out
what MTU size to use but let's say we
want to change it anyway we want to set
it to something that we want to override
we can do that again on the route so
let's say we want to update our default
route to our tour default gateway to
explicitly always use an MTU of 1,500 so
we can do that with that IP route change
command and then once we list that we
can see the overeating output in the
route list okay couple more things
before we can dive into some of the
applications when it comes to packet per
second
performance one of the really important
things when working in a virtualization
environment is to eliminate overhead in
processing each packet and so a couple
years ago we launched a feature called
enhanced networking which is available
on a lot of the new VPC instance types
and what enhanced networking does is it
allows the user the kind of the guest
operating systems like you know your ec2
instance to bypass the host operating
system like the hypervisor and the and
the system that runs of the different
guest operating systems it allows them
to bypass those host operating systems
and send packets directly to the neck so
it basically exposes the hardware Nick
directly to your vm image and the
advantage of this is that you get a lot
less code touching the packet which
means there's a lot less latency and
almost more importantly there's a lot
less jitter and so what this translates
into in a virtualization environment is
hire packet per second performance and
so anytime you're going to be running
experiments within VPC definitely make
sure that you're using enhanced
networking it's been around for a couple
years now so it's it's the default
almost almost everywhere certainly it's
on the window zombies and the Amazon
Linux amies but a lot of the other
armies out there have have switched to
using it by default if you want to learn
some more about it there's a there's a
there's really good documentation on the
internet and there's a couple years ago
that dove into how it works and how you
can make sure that your instance is
actually taking advantage of it because
it does actually require a particular
driver to to activate okay let's talk
about how we can use these new tools
that have been going over today I'm
going to stand up a couple instances
these are pretty beefy instances and for
ten XL's and I'm going to run amazon
linux on them and i'm going to perform a
series of application kind of
experiments to try to you know you know
analyze what some of these tuning
parameters can actually do for us so all
these applications are going to be
http-based and all but one of them are
actually going to use SSL SSL is you
know the kind of the new standard you
know almost all connections these days
should be using SSL so it really makes
sense I think whenever you're doing
benchmarking for
you know for traffic is you should
always be including ssl in the equation
I try to take a little bit of you know
care in eliminating other variables in
these experiments again the goal the
goal was not exactly to produce an exact
replica of a particular production
environment they're a little bit
contrived and so your mileage will
probably vary depending on you know what
different you know outcomes you would
get with tunings and these parameters
and so the point here is again here's
here's a way we can test things and if
you can reproduce your own environment
in a environment like VPC you can do
these tests as well with your particular
applications and see what effect these
tools have on those so I'm I'm not
storing the data anywhere the client
just just throws it away as soon as it
receives it i'm using a ram file system
so the web server doesn't ever actually
have to hit any kind of storage device
and all the bits are randomized so
there's no potential compression going
on at any stage ok so the apache bench
tool is going to be my client it gives
you a whole bunch of statistics whenever
you run it and so this is an example
output which is which is what's going to
be fueling some of the numbers on these
sharing on the next few slides you know
it's a really fun tool and actually if
you're doing any kind of web-based
benchmarking it's a really great place
to start because it's it's it's prayer
least fairly straightforward to use ok
so let's talk about an application that
might be experiencing loss so in the
beginning the talk I talked about just
how bad loss is for a TCP connection
right because the T speed control a
connection control algorithm really
tries to back off very aggressively
because it thinks it can't send more
traffic and the way it backs off has a
very large impact in how it actually is
able to achieve different levels of
performance so I'd like to try to build
simulated experience where I have an
application and I artificially inject
some loss into the network so i'm going
to use again jack and jill here to test
instances these instances are going to
be about 80 milliseconds apart in round
trip time and then i'm going to have 160
parallel streams just
and so the goal here is in the in the
presence of loss how good can I do so
it's oftentimes hard to find a link with
a very controlled amount of loss to run
an experiment and certainly we take
operational excellence very very
seriously in Amazon and try to make sure
that there is no loss anywhere on our
network but it does happen especially if
you go out to the internet and have
mobile clients so we need a way to
simulate it in our test environment so
I'm going to simulate it again using
this TC tool so TC is a very flexible
and what allows us to do with each pack
leaving our box and here is a command
that will add an artificial amount of
point two percent loss to all of my
outgoing packets from that instance so
again how good can we do with point two
percent loss so starting out running my
apache bench benchmark i'm getting a
little over four gigabits per second
that's pretty good over 80 milliseconds
round-trip time now let's introduce that
loss BAM there went over half of my
throughput just point two percent and my
application is already really suffering
so what can we do well we talked about a
bunch of different techniques so let's
just try them you know a lot of these a
lot of these tools and a lot of these
tuning parameters takes time to build
intuitions about and if you don't if you
don't fully know which where to start
you can just try them so let's try
trimming that initial congestion window
well turns out that was a bad idea so
maybe we won't do that let's try the TCP
buffers on the sender side that also
doesn't help and so you know the reason
I kind of put the sender side here is
you know if you have a client-server
architecture you can't always affect
what the client is doing so it would be
nice if we could try to tune the server
to behave with a slightly different way
without having to force a kind of an
application or assistant change on our
clients but it turns out there's not
really much that we can do here on
updating the receipt window on this on
the sender side and in fact that
actually makes things worse so in in
reading about some of these congestion
control algorithms I
the Illinois algorithm there's a little
bit foreshadowing here the the Illinois
algorithm actually was particularly
built to handle loss little better so
let's try at plugging in the Illinois
congestion control algorithm look at
that so it's magic right I'm pulling
this magic rabbit out of my hat and I
get one hundred and thirty-seven percent
increase in performance just by tuning
the TCP connection control algorithm so
a lot of congestion control algorithms
right aren't really expecting loss but
if you're in a situation where you have
persistent loss of network and it comes
and goes then it might be something that
you want to test and try to evaluate
whether or not some of these different
congestion control algorithms might be
helpful to you let's talk about long big
transfers so there's this there's this
new enclosure called big fat or long fat
pipes and it's oftentimes a ripe area
for optimization because it comes back
to that bandwidth delay product problem
so let's say we have two instances that
are spread across an ad millisecond path
and I want to transfer some pretty big
file so I'm going to transfer one
gigabyte files and I'm gonna get eight
parallel clients and the goal is how
much bandwidth how good can I do across
these fairly long links to try to get
those eight gig files transferred as
quickly as possible so if i run it just
kind of flat out i see about two
gigabits per second that's okay not too
bad let's try doubling the buffers on
the server side man still not a good
idea but of course you know on a big
transfer like this the the impact you
would expect is of course on the
receiver right so the receiving side is
the thing that has this buffer that's
constantly getting filled as its
transferring this all this data so let's
try doubling the receive window on the
client side oh yeah that's better so now
we're going about 2.4 gigabits per
second which is a nice little bump so
using these little tuning tools that
we've talked about today you know we can
start to try to tease apart where we can
get some increases in our system let's
try this active queue management so each
of these lines is going to be
independent I didn't mention that yet
each of these lines is not you know I'm
not doing the server side and the client
side and active queue management so each
of these are kind of in
isolation so if I just turn on active
queue management in isolation I also get
a little bit of a bump right so you know
understanding what kind of the queuing
in the middle of network has enabled me
to get a few more percentile points of a
benefit from this from this test set up
all right so I have two things that
independently made things better what's
next turn both on right let's start on
and we've done even better what about
Illinois let's turn that on to a little
bit better Brazil so adding our magic
hat back in the equation we've now been
able to jump to coming a little bit
that's right so at this point let's also
turn on the server side because we've
removed a lot of the restrictions from
the client side so let's try turning up
those server side buffers as well and we
gotta just a little bit more performance
out of that as well and so one of the
interesting things about that is you
know it was it was an experiment we did
early and had overall negative effects
but as you start turning tuning and
tuning you know all of these parameters
interact right and so you it it can help
be helpful to try out different
combinations of parameters although
certainly starting with one of the time
is definitely a good idea so in the end
on this experiment we got about thirty
two percent of network of increase in
network performance just by you know
tuning and playing and not all the
choices were good ones at least not
initially but as we continue to play we
can see that there's opportunities for
you know for improving these things okay
let's talk about a low RTT path so this
experiment is a little bit contrived but
I just I wanted to include it to kind of
highlight what what the effect of that
MTU size was so remember we talked
before about kind of the difference
between 1500 bite Mt use and 9001 by
them to use so for this trip for this
example application I'm gonna be moving
really big files like 10 gig files and
think of it kind of is like a backup in
your in your local AZ kind of kind of
situation and what would happen if it
was actually not using the 9001 bite em
to you so let's let's do this transfer
but force it to be a 1500 by Mt
so with a 1500 m to you I'm getting
about you know a little under nine
gigabits per second that's actually
pretty good right you know that'll move
quite a bit of data across the wire now
let's turn on the nine thousand one bite
and to use and there we go we get a nice
improvement someone expectedly right
we're sending more bites for the same
number of packets now when we were
talking before about the active queue
management right the the active queue
management was really intended for long
network pass that have a lot of routers
in the middle and some of those routers
might have these network interfaces and
have kind of full queues and one of the
comments I made was that the active
queue management algorithms try to be
fairly smart and use heuristics about
when to insert you know latency in
between those packets because you might
think well this control delay algorithm
is a terrible idea for high-throughput
applications because you're adding
latency and so if you have a really
small round trip time you know you
that's the opposite of what you want and
it'd be very susceptible to changes in
those inner packet delays but it turns
out that coddle is actually pretty smart
and when you turn it on it's smart
enough not to do anything so it's it's
it's a fairly safe tool to kind of
experiment with and you can see that you
know when when you're getting really
really good throughput it's not going to
be adding that delay and it's not going
to be impacting your performance there
on such especially alone this example
where you're on a local link with really
really good throughput okay so empty use
get you a little bit so something to
make sure if you ever on a system and
you're trying to tweak a little bit just
something to the double check okay last
application in the beginning to talk I
was talking about initial congestion
windows right and the example I gave was
a lot of web pages have small artifacts
which tend to fit in that you know you
know one is to tens of K of data and
tend to be transferred over relatively
short-lived connections so let's let's
build a test set up that tries to kind
of tease this apart so this is the one
test I'm actually
use HTTP just to kind of remove a
variable and really focus in on this
problem because I'm its kind of coming
down to exactly how many packets we need
transferring but I'm gonna have a huge
number of concurrent connections so
6,400 current clients all trying to grab
a 10k file all at once and we're back to
kind of our normal 80 millisecond link
between these instances so our goal here
is actually going to be to minimize the
latency of these connections not
necessarily the bandwidth put the
latency although we obviously those are
very very related so if i run this by
default i get about two and a half
gigabits per second and it takes a
little over three minutes to run not bad
let's uh let's change our initial
congestion window from three packets to
16 packets remember this is going from
4300 bites before waiting for our
initial acknowledgement to 23k before we
get initial acknowledgement and we can
see that we actually pull down the mean
time to run this experiment by like
almost six seconds right and that's
because there's less time that the the
sender is sitting there waiting for that
first acknowledgement it can actually
put more data on the wire up front and
it turns into an actual increase in
performance so tuning this this initial
congestion window can really help in
these kinds of situations of course if
you're transferring a really long file
over very long-lived connection that
initial congestion window probably is
not going to have a material difference
on the end and run an execution time of
that transfer but if the transfer short
then you will see it okay let's go ahead
and turn on Illinois so you might think
that this is a talk about you know
advertising a little my congestion
control algorithm it's not the intent it
was just something I was been playing
around with anyone you can see has
something actually very interesting here
with it when i turn on Illinois my bang
went down but so did my time and so what
actually is happening here is because
it's a different algorithm it's making
slightly different choices and so when I
see when I see this result you know I
think what's happening is that the
number of outliers that are kind of
shifting around the average have come
down and so Illinois is a little bit
slower but it's a little bit more
consistent right so again it's it's
merely an anecdote of you know can we
play around with these different
tuning parameters and see what effect
they have on our system so our magic hat
there didn't do a whole lot but it did
bring down the meantime just a little
bit so four point six percent okay so
what should you take away from this talk
the one is that the network doesn't have
to be a black box right there's tools
out there that we can inspect what's
going on on your TCP connection what are
the retransmission settings what are the
you know timeout settings what are the
congestion window settings we can start
playing with these and once you once you
know where to look then you can start
having the fun time of experimentation
right so spin up a few instances you
know run them for an hour and just and
just throw all these different
techniques and see what you come up with
and after we do that a few times you'll
start to build some intuitions about
what kinds of improvements you might
expect in other environments but they
can be some pride surprising from time
to time as well the other thing to take
away from this talk is I've never
actually touched the application right I
never made a change to engine X I've
never made a change to Apache benchmark
I'm these are all kind of Linux level
tuning parameters that you know you can
apply even if you don't control the
software that you have so if you have
third-party software or close source
software you don't necessarily are in a
bind in that you can't change it you
have other options to change kind of
system level parameters to try to get
better performance kind of independent
of what the application is doing and
then finally you know hopefully this
will provide some insight into you know
what your application is actually
meeting right you know you you want to
make sure that if your application has a
specific demand of the network if you're
using long long paths with long with
high arc tt's or short rtts you know you
can try to figure out what what avenues
to kind of a tackle first that's it
thank you very much for coming to the
talk I really appreciate your time
please remember to commit your
valuations I'm happy to stay up here at
the front if anybody has questions
afterwards